live and love in a world that's lost its
way hi I'm Robert Jeffers your Bible
teacher on Pathway to Victory and in my
new book the 10 I share what the Ten
Commandments mean and how they apply to
our lives and most importantly why they
are God's proven method for freeing us
to experience blessings we could never
imagine discover God's - tested
blueprint for a joyful and flourishing
life the new book is called the 10 pick
up a copy today by going to ptv.org
again that's
ptv.org
hi I'm Robert Jeffers pastor of First
Baptist Church in Dallas we are so
excited to have you join us on the I
campus today for a time of inspiring
worship and Biblical teaching you are
part of a vast online community gathered
from all over the world we consider you
a part of our First Baptist Church
family and we hope you feel a part of
what God is doing in and through First
Baptist Dallas no matter where you are
we hope and pray that this is a time you
will grow in your relationship with God
and others as we worship Our Savior
together Welcome To
[Music]
Worship
[Applause]
[Music]
well good morning everyone welcome to
worship at First Baptist Dallas today
Welcome to our guest and high campus
viewers Church let's stand
together let's sing this great hym of
the faith Crown Him With Many
Crowns with many
CRS the lamb upon his
throne how the
heav DRS all music
is
home oh wake my soul and
sing of him who died for
thee and hail him as thy matchless be
through all
eternity crown him the Lord of Life who
triumphed over the
grave who glorious in the for those he
came to
S his glor now we
see who died and Rose on high who died
etal life to and Liv
[Applause]
that the Reas
[Music]
ground the
victorious
victorious the Lord of heav
one with the
father one with the
spirit him from y
glorious to the the end Us
Praise for th for us
di th Lord through endless days ad
and
[Music]
him
Victorious for
let's put our hands together this
[Music]
morning Awake My Soul and
sing of him who die for
the hail him hail him hail him
the matchless king of
Peace oh wake my soul and
seeing of him who died for
me him him him the
of
him grounding the Lord of
Lord crown
Crown the Victorious King of
Kings
[Music]
Crown the Victorious King of
Kings we worship the Lord
today
amen Freedom's calling Chains Are
Falling hope is
daing bright and
true day is
breaking night is
waking God is
making all things
new
[Music]
Jesus
hear the heart of
Heaven he The Heart Of
Heaven Jesus
saves Jesus
saves and
the of Mery
breathing Jesus
saes Jesus
saes
theost of Angels Sing Glory To The newn
King and
sounding
Joy
[Music]
Jesus see
the
hearts
jesuses
jesuses and the
Wiest bow before him Jesus
saes Jesus
saes see the
sky light with
praise melting
darkness in his
place there
is Forever
More
[Music]
Jesus he will live a sh
Jesus
Jesus he will
die
and
jesuses
[Music]
Redemption while the
EMP
declaring
Jesus
Falling CH are
falling hope is
ding bright and
true is
breaking night is
breaking
[Music]
ising
oh Bri and
[Music]
true
is God
is
Jesus
Jesus Jus
[Music]
Jesus great
Jesus yes
Jesus on
the to shout
together
Jesus
[Music]
[Applause]
lifting
s the r will seek forever
Jesus so last and
strong
[Music]
salvation
for will see
forever
Jesus
he sa
to
Jesus he say
you
Jesus
[Music]
Jes Jesus
saves amen you may be
seated well it is so good to Worship the
Lord together this morning here at First
Baptist Dallas and we do welcome each of
you to worship and we welcome our guest
joining us in the room as well as on our
eye campus and guest we do have a very
special gift just for you today it's our
pastor's brand new book are we living in
the end times biblical answers to seven
questions about the
future guest as you came in this morning
you received a worship guide you're
going to find enclosed this welcome card
please take the time to fill this out
you can also scan the QR code and at the
conclusion of the service guests take
your completed card with you right
outside these main Worship Center doors
you're going to find our Welcome Center
our staff is waiting there for you
you'll exchange your completed card for
your gift today
and we'll be happy to answer any
questions you have about our church we
look forward to meeting you now guest if
you can't make it to the Welcome Center
we also have some boxes on your way out
you can place your card in one of those
and we'll mail you a copy of your gift
and then for those joining us on I
campus just follow that link provided on
the bottom of your screen you can access
your welcome gift that way well again
welcome to each of you this morning so
many exciting upcoming
events next week just one week away is
our Dallas Christmas Spectacular tickets
are going fast just a few remaining you
won't want to miss it beginning next
Saturday and Sunday today is your last
chance for buy one get one free don't
miss it we look forward to seeing you
there along with all of the other
upcoming special events this Christmas
season
here at First Baptist Dallas so let's
take a moment now and look together at
the
[Music]
screen good morning here are a few
upcoming events for you and your family
this Christmas season the first Dallas
choir and Orchestra presents the Dallas
Christmas Spectacular next weekend
December 9th and 10th you and your
family will enjoy Christmas classics
with special performances by Jordan
Feliz and ballet Magnificat children
join us for back to the stable to
experience a live nativity in Sunday
school on December 17th there will be a
special gift and chocolate milk for all
ladies join Julia Jeff Sadler on Sunday
December 17th for our mother daughter
Christmas tea enjoy sweet time with
family as well as a special Nutcracker
performance ornament crafts and family
photos Church join us Christmas Eve
morning for a special message by Dr
jeffris Crispy Cream Donuts Family
Photos by the Christmas tree and receive
your first Dallas ornament then come
back that evening at 5:00 pm for our
annual candle light and Lord supper
worship service members celebrate our
dedication to Mission 18 win Now by
committing or recommitting your pledge
and bringing your best gift to worship
for light of the world Sunday on
December 17th for more information on
everything happening at our church visit
firstdallas.org
[Music]
events
today's scripture reading is from
Matthew chap 24 we're going to be
reading verses
27-31 as the pastor gets back to his end
time series and we'll read from The New
American Standard Bible in the Worship
Center we have the words on the screens
here I campus you have the words as well
from that translation so that we can all
read God's word together please stand
with me now to honor the reading of
God's word Matthew CH 24 beginning with
verse 26 7 ending with verse
31 for just as the lightning comes from
the East and flashes even to the West so
will the coming of the son of man be
wherever the corpse is there the
vultures will gather but immediately
after the tribulation of these days the
sun will be darkened and the moon will
not give its light and the Stars will
fall from the sky and the powers of the
heavens will be shaken and then the sign
of the son of man will appear in the sky
and then all the tribes of the earth
will mourn and they will see the son of
man coming on the clouds of the sky with
power and great glory and he will send
forth his angels with a great trumpet
and they will gather together his
afflect from the Four Winds from one end
of the sky to the other may God richly
bless the reading of his word keep
standing now as Tyler comes back and we
continue to praise our King
Jesus Isaiah
53 verse 4 and 5 surely he took up our
pain and bore our suffering yet we
considered him punished by God strict by
him and
Afflicted but he was pierced for our
transgressions crushed for our
iniquities the punishment that brought
us peace was on him and by his wounds we
are
healed oh the perfect Son of
God in all his
innocence you're walking in the dirt
with you and
[Music]
me he knows what living is he's
acquainted with our
grief a man of sorrow Son
suffering oh Blood and
Tears how can it
be there's a God who we
there's a God who
BS oh praise the one who would reach for
me
Hallelujah to the son
[Music]
of imag you are dist and
remove but you chase us down in merciful
pursuit to the S you were Grace and the
BR you
Embrace in the end the roof is in
your in the end the proof is in your
WS oh and
how can it
be there's a God Who
Weeps there's a God who
B oh praise the
one who would reach for
me
hallelu to the son
[Music]
of oh
hallelujah thank you
[Music]
Jesus your cross my freedom your stries
my healing all praise King
Jesus glory to God in heaven your blood
still speaking your love still reaching
all pra PR King
Jesus glory to God
forever your cross my freom your stes my
healing all praise in
Jesus glory to God in heaven your blood
still speaking your love still reaching
all praise King Jes
Jesus glory to God
forever glory to God
forever your CR my freedom your
St my he all
PR
Jesus glory to
God
your still speaking your love still
reaching all praise in
Jesus glory to
[Music]
God my he all
praise
Jesus glory to
God your glory still
speaking love still reaching all praise
in
Jesus glory to God
for
Glory Glory to
God we bless
your glory to
God we give glory to
God Amen you may be seated we have a
very special Mission 18 win now report
this morning turn your attention to the
screen First Baptist Dallas a Beacon of
Hope and transformation stands as a
testament to the boundless power of a
single life
change everything we do from planning
events to streaming broadcasts and
stewarding every dollar is driven by our
mission to transform our world with
God's word one life at a time in 2023 we
set out to win as many people as
possible for Jesus Christ like never
before church you showed up and God
delivered more than we could have asked
for this year we've witnessed the
Monumental scale of our Ministries reach
and its profound impact we celebrated
932 decisions for Christ in person and
784 online through the eye campus we
witnessed 128 followers participate in
Believers
baptism and we welcome 754 new members
in into the first Dallas
family the Milestones we've marked are
nothing short of
extraordinary along with the 10th
anniversary of our recreated campus we
celebrated being debt-free
we welcome distinguished guests like
vice president Mike Pence Ken Ham and
Shannon bream on Sundays like Palm
Sunday with Anne Wilson we took the good
news of the Resurrection down to Clyde
Warren Park
Freedom Sunday with guests US senator
James Langford and Guy Penrod we
celebrated our faith and freedom in
Christ invited guest Sunday featuring
Lee Strobel the news boys and Benjamin
William Hastings resulted in one of our
highest attended Sunday since 2020 as
you our members wholeheartedly embrace
the one life initiative our Ministries
have grown bridging generational gaps in
meeting diverse needs we even introduced
a brand new ministry in espanol Crossing
language barriers to reach more
lives an incredible number of our church
members have stepped up to serve and
volunteer in amazing ways and we have
equipped our members with more content
than ever before including spring
training 2.0 discipleship courses on the
eye campus and numerous devotional
Series this year our members have served
as the hands and feet of Jes Jesus
throughout our local community and
travel to Kentucky Hawaii the Bahamas
and
Guatemala we remain focused on
International Ministry efforts
strategically ministering to gospel
hungry regions like Brazil Ukraine
Israel the Philippines and
Beyond Pathway to Victory has become a
mighty vessel carrying the truth of
God's word to Millions across the world
it has now been the most watch
television program on the Trinity
Broadcasting Network the largest
Christian television network in the
world for more than 40 consecutive
months Julia Jeff Sandler's Unapologetic
podcast with over 20,000 monthly
downloads has empowered the Next
Generation to have bold faith in a
broken
world we are a church made up of
transformed lives we know the
immeasurable impact just one life change
has on the kingdom of
God with each story We Tell we bear
witness to the incredible work the Lord
is doing in and through us to transform
our world with God's word one life at a
time will we praise God for all that he
is doing in our church all that he's
done through you through this first year
of Mission 18 win now and what you've
just seen is really just an overview of
the work that God has been doing we've
prepared to you for you at the end of
the year a Ministry impact report it's
the second time we've done this we call
this our on life First Baptist Dallas
impact report and you'll be receiving a
copy of this in the mail this week there
are also copies around the campus that
you can pick up church I really want to
encourage you to read through this you
will see so many stories of life change
testimonies from our church members and
even uh new members of our ministry
staff and trust me you will be
encouraged as you read about all that
God is doing through our church there is
so much happening that we even have
staff members often say I had no idea
that we were doing something like that
and so I think that you'll be encouraged
as you learn more about the Ministries
of our church remember that we are
looking ahead toward light of the world
Sunday on Sunday December 17th and on
that day we're really asking you to do
two things we're asking you in one hand
to bring your new commitment card and
there are copies of this in the worship
guide today you'll also receive a copy
of this in the mail and on that
commitment card we're asking you either
to confirm a previous commitment
increase a previous commitment or make a
brand new commit commitment to Mission 1
a win now so bring that commitment card
in one hand in the other hand bring your
best gift toward that mission 18
commitment and you'll have the
opportunity to give that gift on Sunday
December 17th and that will help us as
we launch into this new year thank you
church for your commitment thank you for
your giving thank you for your prayers
as we serve the Lord together we
continue our time of worship through
giving this morning and you can leave
your ties and offerings in the boxes as
you exit you can also give those online
but right now during this time of
commitment I'll invite you to kneel as
we go to the Lord in prayer
together gracious Heavenly Father we do
praise you for the the amazing things
that you've done for the lives that are
being changed for all eternity we praise
you for the work that you are doing in
our
church and Lord I pray that we would
have the mind the heart the attitude of
Our Savior Jesus Christ who said that it
is our responsibility to do your work
knowing that the time is coming that we
won't be able to work any
longer and Lord we know that is true
even as we prepare to celebrate the
Incarnation of our savior his first
coming we are looking ahead to the day
that he returned earns as the Victorious
King of Kings the day that every knee
will bow and every tongue will confess
that Jesus is
Lord in the meantime father we pray that
you would make us more like our
savior we pray that you would draw us
closer to you and we thank you Lord for
choosing us and saving us and making us
your children and we pray this in the
saving name of Jesus Christ
[Music]
amen
Let the
church be the
church let the
people for we
all
the we made our
choice let the
ends
[Music]
of
for the
[Applause]
church
this old ship has been through
battles
before
storms and
Tempest and rocks on the
shore though the
hall may be battered deep
inside it safe and
dry it will
carry
it to the p in
the God has always had a people many a
foolish conqueror has made the mistake
of thinking that because he had forced
the Church of Jesus Christ out of sight
he had stilled its voice and snuffed out
its life but God has always had a people
the powerful current of a Rushing River
is not diminished because it's forced to
flow underground no the purest water is
the stream that bursts Crystal Clear
into the sunlight after it's been forced
its way through the Rocks there have
been charlatans who like Simon the
Magician sought to barter on the open
market that power which cannot be bought
or sold but God has always had a people
men who could not be bought women who
were Beyond purchase God has always had
his people there have been times of
affluence and prosperity when the
church's message has been nearly deluded
into Oblivion by those who sought to
make it socially attractive or neatly
organized and financially profitable but
God has always had a people yes it's
been goldplated draped in purple en
crusted with jewels it's been
misrepresented ridiculed mocked and
scorned but God has always had a people
these followers of Jesus Christ have
been according to the whim of the times
elevated as sacred leaders or martyred
as Heretics yet through it all their
marches on the powerful Army of the meek
God's chosen people who cannot be bought
flattered murdered or still on Through
the Ages they marked the church God
triumphant Church alive and
[Music]
well
the we made us
[Music]
[Applause]
oh listen child of God the church is
alive discouraged Pastor it's his church
and it's still alive lonely missionary
sew that seed with confidence the church
is still alive Old Saint you're not
alone and forgotten the church is alive
busy mother keep trusting in Jesus the
church is alive and you're not alone out
there serving the lord young student
just keep looking to Jesus the church is
alive and faithful fathers there's rest
in the Lord God's church is still alive
so family of God lift your hands lift
your praise to the Lord the church God's
church is triumphant his church is alive
and it is
[Music]
[Applause]
well
[Music]
[Applause]
thank you so much first Dallas choir and
Orchestra for that powerful reminder
about the power of God's Church we're so
glad to welcome you to our services here
at First Baptist Dallas especially the
millions of you watching online or
watching on Pathway to Victory you know
we are in a series are we living in the
end times and the book uh from this
Series has been available to our church
members in Pathway to Victory church
members for the last several weeks but
this coming Tuesday it's going to be
released nationally and I want you to
pray with me that God will use the
message of this book about the return of
Jesus Christ in a powerful way uh we
found out the book's going to be in all
kind of retail outlets including uh our
friends that Hobby Lobby have ordered
copies for every one of their stores and
they're not only going to put it in the
book section they're putting it at the
checkout counter as well so let's pray
God uses the book uh in a great way
you'll see uh the book being advertised
starting Wednesday night on Fox prime
time uh lineup all the big shows there
will be carrying a word about the book
as well and of course the proceeds go to
support our Pathway to Victory Ministry
but the message of this book is
something our nation needs to hear right
now so thank you for praying for that
book and series as it's released this
coming
Tuesday I discovered a long time ago
that Maps can be very very helpful they
can become a necessity especially when
you're traveling in a foreign
country I learned that the hard way uh
some years ago a friend of mine invited
me to come to Canada to preach at his
church and I gladly accepted the
invitation because I had been there
before and uh so one Friday afternoon I
flew to Minneapolis changed planes there
and landed in Winnipeg Manitoba about
4:30 in the afternoon uh just uh several
hours before the church service was to
begin I retrieved my luggage stood at
the curb waiting for the pastor to pick
me up and I waited and I waited and I
waited so something obviously was wrong
so I pulled out the letter that he had
sent to me to call him to see what the
problem was and uh when I looked at that
letter I noticed the return address
didn't correspond to where I was and so
I thought maybe I had come to the wrong
place so I went into the ticket counter
I showed them the letter I said I really
don't know anything about Canada but it
says I'm supposed to be in Vancouver
British
Columbia is there a bus I can take there
I need to be there in about 30 minutes
and they laughed they said a bus you're
1,500 miles away from
Vancouver I said 1500 miles they said
yes it's a 3-hour plane ride to
Vancouver but you're in luck there's a
plane leaving and just the next few
minutes and with the 2hour time
difference going that direction you can
make it in time if you hurry so I ran
like OJ Simpson remember him running
through the airport I ran down to the
ticket counter apparently word had
already traveled down to the ticket
counter because as I gave the ticket
person my ticket he handed me a map of
Canada in return He said read this it
may help you the next time you're
here Maps can be very important when
you're in a foreign territory and for
many people the study of the end times
is a foreign territory they're not
familiar with it they get confused by it
and so today as we continue to answer
the question are we living in the end
times we're going to talk about the
major events that will be a part of the
end times if you have your Bibles turn
to Romans 11 Romans 11 we've said so far
in our series that technically we're not
in the end times yet we're in the time
that precedes the end times called The
Last Days actually we've been in the
last days for 2,000 years uh the last
days started When Jesus ascended into
heaven the first time and it will end at
the Rapture of the church that we'll
talk about in just a moment the end
times begins after the Rapture until the
second coming of Christ but to help you
understand this better I want us to look
first of all at the age that we're
living in right now that roughly
corresponds to the last days we call it
the church age and I want you to write
down this definition of the church age
it is that period of time from Pentecost
until the Rapture during which Gentiles
are invited to participate faith in the
blessings of the abrahamic Covenant now
that's a mouthful right there we talked
about the church triumphant the choir
did the church was born on the day of
Pentecost after the Ascension of Christ
into heaven and we are in that church
age right now now the best way for me to
illustrate the church age to you is to
have you imagine this scenario just
imagine you're trying to throw a lavish
birthday party for your 10-year-old
child and so you rent the bounce house
and you hire a clown and you get order
the ice cream desserts and you send out
the invitations to your son's birthday
party the day before the party you get
the flood of RSVPs
declining uh people's attendance you had
invited your closest friends and
relatives but they come up with lame
excuses for why they can't come so what
do you do do you cancel the party you
don't want to hurt your son's feelings
what do you do you expand the invitation
list you suddenly call relatives you
can't stand neighbors you've never met
you want to get a crowd there for that
party celebration now that sounds like a
ridiculous illustration that's exactly
the illustration Jesus used in Matthew
22 to describe the phenomenon of what we
call the church age
Jesus said Imagine a King who was going
to throw a banquet for his son he sends
out the invitation list but people
declined so what does he do he doesn't
want to disappoint his son so he tells
his servants to go out into the highways
and the byways and compel others to come
in to the banquet celebration now that's
exactly what the church age is we talked
about the abrahamic Covenant a few weeks
ago God made an uncond IAL promise to
Abraham and his descendants but to take
advantage of it they had to believe they
had to attend the banquet so to speak
unfortunately uh the Jewish people
rejected that invitation at least
temporarily so what has God done he's
expanded the invitation list he's
invited
Gentiles people like you and me he's
invited us to be a part of the banquet
celebration
now does that mean God has turned his
back on Israel not at all in fact that's
the question Paul answers in Romans 111
I say then God has not rejected his
people has he may it never be for I to
him an Israelite a descendant of Abraham
of The Tribe of Benjamin for I do not
want you Brethren to be uninformed of
this mystery lest you be wise in your
own estimation that a partial hardening
a partial a temporary hardening has
happened to Israel until the fullness of
the Gentiles has come in there are a few
Israelites being saved our friend Mike
Evans here today is on the way back to
Israel he's working he's shining the
witness of Christ some are being saved
but right now the nation as a whole has
hardened their heart but it won't always
be that way it's a temporary hardening
of the heart while the fullness of the
Gentiles comes in as we'll see in a
moment when every Gentile is finally
saved whom God has ordained to be saved
God will resume his plan with Israel in
a final 7-week period we are living in
that time of the Gentiles the church age
right now what is the end of the church
age when do the last days come to an end
it comes with the next event on God's
prophetic timeline and that is the
rapture of the church now people say the
Rapture that's not found in the Bible
that's something you dispensationalist
made up the idea of the Rapture why the
Old Testament never talked about it true
Jesus never talked about it maybe true
with the exception of John 14 why didn't
these people talk about it when the
disciples asked the Lord on the Mount of
Olives Lord what will be the sign of
your coming in the end of the age did
Jesus answer the Rapture will be the
next thing no Jesus never talked about
it the Rapture why because the Rapture
is for the church alone Paul was the one
who was given the job of revealing the
mystery of the church that God would
temporarily Harden the heart of Israel
and give Gentiles an opportunity to
participate in not replace but to
participate in the blessings of Abraham
now it stands to reason if Paul is the
one who had the assignment of revealing
the mystery of the church age it would
be Paul who reveal the end of the church
age which is the rapture of the church
and he does that in 1 Thessalonians 4
let me give you this definition again of
the Rapture the Rapture of the church is
the snatching away the heaven of all
Christians from the time of Pentecost
before the
tribulation everyone who was saved from
the time of Pentecost until the
beginning of the tribulation will be
raptured what does that word mean look
at verses 16 and 17 of 1 Thessalonians 4
for the Lord himself will descend from
heaven with a shout with the voice of
the Archangel and with the trumpet of
God and the dead in Christ shall rise
first then we who are alive and remain
will be now underline this caught up
together with them in the clouds to meet
the Lord where in the air so that we
will always be with the Lord now I'm
going to give you a sneak preview of
next Sunday I've never done a sermon on
this before but I'm going to preach a
sermon on what the differences between
the Rapture and the second coming of
Christ we're going to talk about that in
depth next week it's critical to
understand those two very different
events but right now we're talking about
the Rapture and notice the four
components of the Rapture first of all
at the Rapture God will descend from
heaven Christ will descend from heaven
the Lord will descend from heaven he
comes not to Earth he comes from Heaven
into the clouds that's a major
difference between the Rapture and the
second coming in verse
15 Paul describes the Rapture as the
coming of the
Lord the word coming of the Lord
Pera paraca is also used in Matthew
2427 to describe the second coming of
Jesus both the Rapture and the second
coming involve the coming the pera the
presence of the Lord but just because
two things are similar doesn't mean
they're the same event I'll talk about
that more next week but the Lord comes
at the Rapture in the air at the second
coming he comes to Earth Zechariah
Chapter 14 but it starts with The
Descent of the Lord the Lord himself
will descend from heaven with a shout
with the voice of the Archangel and with
the trumpet of God the next component
secondly is that the dead in Christ
shall be
resurrected who are the dead in Christ
some people think well it involves
everybody who's ever been saved Moses
David Abraham Ruth I don't think so I
think this is referring to the Church of
Jesus Christ Now understand this when we
die we don't go to sleep when we die our
spirit immediately goes into the
presence of Jesus Jesus Christ 2
Corinthians 5:8 says to be absent from
the body is to be at home with the Lord
but our bodies don't go to heaven do
they they get put in a cemetery almost
said Seminary they go to a cemetery you
can die in a seminary too you can die in
a church service but that's another
sermon they go to the cemetery and the
body's
decompos today some people have their
bodies
cremated doesn't matter that just speeds
up a natural process your bodies are
going to eventually become dust a little
heat just you know speeds up the process
but our bodies are left behind but at
the Rapture of the church the dead in
Christ the bodies of those who have died
are going to be raised the dead in
Christ will rise first they are going to
rise and I believe this is a reference
to the church the the bodies of
Christians will be raised at the
Rapture thirdly all living Christians
will also be removed he says and then we
who are alive and remain shall be caught
up together to meet in the Lord there is
a group of Christians in some future
generation who will not experience death
like Enoch in the Old Testament like
Elijah one day they'll be walking with
God on Earth and they'll be suddenly
transported without an interruption to
meet God and to continue that
relationship it could be this generation
we don't know as we're going to see the
most important thing about the Rapture
is it's imminence it could happen at any
moment there are no signs that need to
be uh fulfilled for the Rapture to take
place and so the Lord descends the dead
in Christ their bodies are raised we who
are alive and remain shall be caught up
together and there's that word caught up
up our potso people say the word rapture
is not in the Bible no it's right here
Rapture it means literally to snatch
away we who are alive and remain at the
Rapture shall be snatched away to meet
the Lord in the air and the fourth
component is all our bodies every
Christian's body will be
transformed at the Rapture while the
bodies from the cemetery are being
raised while you and I are being raised
on our way to heaven our bodies are
changed in a moment in the twinkling of
an eye by the way that's not the
blinking of an eye it's the twinkling of
an eye the twinkling of an eye is much
faster than a blink it's the time it
takes light to travel from the lens of
your eye to the retina that's the moment
of a twinkling of an eye it's
instantaneous why do we have to have our
bodies transformed well well that's real
easy you don't want to Lug this body
you're carrying with you right now into
heaven do you it wasn't made to last for
eternity it may not make it till next
year or next month we need a new body
our bodies are well suited for this
world they're wholly unsuitable for the
next World and that's why Paul said in 1
Corinthians 15:50 now I say this then
that flesh and blood cannot inherit the
kingdom of God nor does the perishable
put on the in perable and then he says
in verse 51 behold I tell you a mystery
we will not all sleep that is not every
Christian will die there's a generation
of Christians who will not experience
death but we all do have to be changed
in a moment in the twinkling of an eye
at the last trumpet for the trumpet will
sound the dead will be raised
imperishable and we will be changed why
for this perishable must put on the
imperishable and the mortal must put on
immortality that's the next event we're
awaiting the Rapture of the church now
there's one event that I didn't put on
your outline but we think I think it
occurs at this moment and that is the
BMA the Judgment seat of Christ for all
Christians when are Christians finally
rewarded evaluated and rewarded for what
they've done I think it could very well
be at the moment of the Rapture 2
Corinthians 5:9 and10 says we must all
appear before the Judgment seat of
Christ that each of us may be rewarded
for what we've done whether it be good
or worthless this isn't the Judgment of
unbelievers the great white Throne
judgment we'll look at in a moment but
this is the Judgment for the
church now the next event after the
Rapture that is a part of the end times
is a period of time we call the
tribulation write this down the
tribulation is the 7year period of time
that begins when the Antichrist signs a
peace Covenant with Israel and ends with
Armageddon and the second coming of
Jesus
Christ now stay with me for the next
five minutes don't become a part of the
Dead in Christ and fall asleep because
this is really critical to understand
Bible prophecy and I think you'll find
this encouraging too the key in that
definition is it's a seven-year period
of time when do the end times officially
begin when the tribulation begins and
the tribulation will officially begin
the seven year period of time will will
begin when that final world dictator
signs a peace Covenant with Israel
that's when we start the 7-year
countdown that will be filled with
trouble pains of childbirth but will
ultimately end at the end of the seven
years with the birth of Christ
Millennial Kingdom Christ coming to
Earth to establish his kingdom now
notice I said it is a 7-year period why
is that important remember 600 years
before uh Christ was born the Israelites
were in Babylon and captivity and
remember how Daniel
um asked was part of the captives in
Babylon and he prayed to God God when
are you going to finish your plan
fulfill your Covenant with Israel and
God gave Daniel more than he bargained
for he was just think about when will
these 70 years come to an end and we go
back to the land but Gabriel came and
gave him a panoramic view of the future
of Israel and remember Gabriel said to
Daniel in Daniel 9:24-27
70 weeks now I won't get into this but
he was talking about 70 weeks of years
Daniel had been talking about years
earlier 70 weeks of years have been
decreed for your people for God to
finish the plan with your people now
what is 70 weeks a year well every week
represents 7 years so 70 time 7 would be
490 years in other words Daniel God has
490 years left to finish his plan with
Israel but that period of time is going
to be divided into two parts there'll be
the 69 weeks of years or 483 years and
then there'll be an interval a gap and
there'll be a final 7ye period of time
one week of years that's all in Daniel
9:24-27
well Daniel could ask the question well
when does
the clock start ticking on those 490
years and Gabriel told him he said this
490e period starts when the decree goes
out to rebuild the city of
Jerusalem so when did that happen now
many Bible scholars get mixed up on this
they think it was Cyrus the Great who
issued that decree in 536 BC no he
issued a decree not to rebuild Jerusalem
but to rebuild the Temple the decree to
actually go build the city of Jerusalem
didn't happen we know this in history
until March 14th 445 BC and it wasn't
Cyrus it was arzer long Manis who gave
that decree it's interesting we know the
date this stopwatch started counting
down the final 490 years Gabriel said
from the the time the decree goes out
until the time Messiah is presented will
be 69 weeks of years or 483 years now
what's interesting is when was Messiah
presented well when he came in on the
donkey that final week of his life
remember the people shouted out hosan
hosan there was a temporary very
temporary acceptance of him a
recognition of Messiah we know when that
happened April the 2nd 32 a what we call
Palm
Sunday my old Seminary Professor Harold
honer has done a chronology of this to
show exactly to the date how these
prophecies were fulfilled from the time
the decree goes out 4:45 BC until
ad32 was exactly
483 years
but then Daniel was shown that there
would be a gap between that event which
would Encompass thousands of years of
Prophecy and Earth history that Daniel
didn't understand the crucifixion the
Resurrection The Church age all of that
there is still seven years left on that
stopwatch 483 years have passed God has
one week of years 7 years to finish his
work with Israel and that is what the
tribulation is it is a time for God to
finish his plan for Israel and to
fulfill his promise to Abraham and
that's exactly what happens notice
there's a two-fold purpose in the
tribulation one is the Salvation of
Israel many people don't realize that
during the Great Tribulation there will
be a great Revival in which many Jews
are saved what Israel needs more than
anything else right now is what the
world needs right now and that's
salvation through Jesus Christ and there
is coming a time when a great number of
Israelites will turn to Faith in Jesus
Christ they will do so through the
144,000 Jewish Witnesses who will be sa
saved and secured at the beginning of
the tribulation there will be Gentiles
who will be saved they'll pay a great
price to be saved they'll be martyred
but they will be saved so there's a
purpose purpose of salvation but the
second purpose of the tribulation is the
condemnation of unbelievers living on
Earth and we'll talk about that more
next week now the tribulation will
climax at the end of the seven years
with the next event on God's prophetic
timeline and that is Armageddon and the
second coming of Christ what is the war
of Armageddon It's the final world war
that will be fought in Israel and will
result
in the visible return of Jesus Christ
the nation's Powers the powers of the
world will a symbol on that plane of
megiddo to do battle with the Antichrist
when suddenly they'll look up into
heaven the clouds will part and Jesus
Christ and his army of Believers will
return Jesus uh is pictured in
Revelation 19 beginning with verse 11 I
saw heaven open and behold a white horse
and he who sat upon it is called
faithful and true and with righteousness
he judges and wages War he comes to
Earth for what purpose to establish his
long awaited Kingdom on Earth uh an
event we call the Millennium and here's
the definition of the Millennium the
Millennium is the Thousand-Year reign of
Christ on Earth that will occur after
the second
coming Revelation 20 John says I saw an
angel coming down he had a great chain
and he laid hold of the Dragon Satan
bound him for a thousand years five
times in this short passage the phrase a
thousand years is found how long will
Christ reign in the millennial Kingdom a
thousand years it is a time that Satan
is bound it's a time that Israel will
occupy all the land God had promised her
it is a time that Messiah Jesus Will
Rule from the Throne of David in
Jerusalem all of these things God
promised will happen during the
Millennium now it's important to know
because Satan has been bound for a
thousand years there is a renovation of
this present Earth a partial lifting of
the curse it's not a recreation of the
earth it's not the new Heaven and Earth
it is a renovated earth Isaiah talked
about it in Isaiah 65 during that time
there'll be no infant
death no infants will die anybody who
doesn't live at least to 100 will be
thought to be a cursed now that raises a
natural question well who would be being
born in the Millennium and who would die
I thought in God's kingdom there's no
death I thought in God's kingdom you
live forever is it possible we die once
we enter the Millennium remember this in
the Millennium there'll be two kind of
Believers there will be Believers in
their natural bodies that will be people
who were saved during the
tribulation and they survive the
tribulation they enter into the
Millennium in their natural bodies in
which they do procreate other people
like us who will already have our new
bodies will be like the angels and that
we do not procreate but there will be
people born of believers who are in
their natural bodies in the Millennium
and these people don't automatically
become a part of God's kingdom because
they're living in the Kingdom they have
to make a choice at that point whether
they want to follow Christ or not and
that's why Revelation 20:3 says that
after the Thousand Years Satan must be
released for a short time he's going to
be be released at the end of the
Millennium for his one final attempt to
persuade people to follow him and some
who are born during the him even though
they've experienced the blessings of
being under Christ's rule they will
choose to follow Satan himself just like
the Angels chose in heaven to do such a
thing and that is when God puts an end
to history as we know it and what does
he do Revelation 20:10 the devil who
deceived them was thrown into the Lake
of Fire where the Beast and false
prophit are and they will be tormented
day and night forever and ever and that
leads to the next event the great white
Throne judgment the great white Throne
judgment here's the definition is God's
final judgment against all unbelievers
who have ever lived where does an
unbeliever go when he dies right now
Luke 16 says he is in Hades the
temporary Dwelling Place of the
unsaved the unsaved don't go to sleep
either when they die they begin
immediately experiencing torment but
it's not the final Lake of Fire there's
a great judgment awaiting unbelievers at
the end of time at the end of the
Millennium it's called the Great White
Throne judgment and the Bible says in
Revelation 20:3 the sea gave up the dead
which were in it and Hades was empty
death and Hades gave up the dead which
were in them and they were judged every
one of them according to their deeds
every unbeliever who has ever lived will
be judged how by his deed needs you say
well I didn't think people God cared
about our works remember an unbeliever
is in Hades today because he says he
doesn't need the grace of Jesus Christ
he thinks he's good enough to enter
Heaven on his own and so God says you
don't want my grace you want to be
judged by works fine we will judge you
by your works and at the great white
Throne judgment the books of everyone's
life is opened up and he is judged
according to the things that are written
in the books the account of his life the
only problem is no matter how good he is
he's not good enough he may be better
than the members of Hamas who behead
children but that doesn't make him
worthy of Heaven because there's only
one standard of comparison and that is
the perfect righteousness of Jesus
Christ and by that standard everybody
will be seen lacking Romans 3:23 there's
not one right righteous Among Us not one
for all have sinned and fallen short of
the glory of God and what happens to
those whose names were not written in
the book if anyone's name was not found
written in the Book of Life John says he
was cast into the Lake of
Fire and what
happens that unbeliever like Satan like
the Beast like the false prophet or
tormented it says day and night forever
and ever the horrible truth about hell
is when we have spent 10 billion
trillion years there we will not have
lessened by one second the time we have
left to spend
there this great white Throne judgment
is climaxed with the destruction of the
present Heaven and Earth look at 2 Peter
3: 7 and 10 by God's word the present
heavens and Earth are being reserved for
fire kept for the day of judgment and
destruction of ungodly men but the day
of the Lord will come like a thief in
which the heavens will pass away with a
roar the elements will be destroyed with
intense Heat and the Earth at its Works
shall be burned up and that leads us to
the final event on God's prophetic
timeline and that is eternity future
eternity future is the permanent state
of both Believers and inhabiting the new
Heaven and of unbelievers inhabiting the
Lake of
Fire the key phrase is it's the
permanent State once you reach this
point it is too late for any change in
your life your Eternal Destiny is fixed
forever and what did John see he saw
Revelation 21 after this present Heaven
and Earth are destroyed I saw a new
Heaven and a new Earth for the first
heaven and the first Earth passed away
and there is no longer any sea and I saw
the holy city the New Jerusalem coming
down out of Heaven from God made ready
as a bride adorned for her husband and
there's the great description in the
final two chapters of the body of the
Bible of the new Heaven and the new
Earth God has planned for us we've
talked a lot about heaven heaven is not
floating on some Cloud plucking a heart
for all eternity John gives us a very
Vivid description of the new heaven it's
not going to be up there someplace far
away it is the earth not renovated it's
this present Earth recreated and
restored to the condition God had
planned for Adam and Eve in the garden
it will be literally heaven on Earth
that New Jerusalem that City will come
down to earth we don't go up to the New
Jerusalem it comes down to us what are
we going to do for all eternity if it's
not play a harp what are we going to do
we're going to worship God like we've
never worshiped before but we're going
to do more than worship we're going to
work we're going to have assignments
thing God gives us to do some people
says that sounds more like hell to me
than Heaven an eternity of working no we
were created to be workers and all the
things that make our work so unpleasant
right now will be removed no more tired
bodies no more bad relationships no more
oppressive bosses all of that will be
gone and we'll enjoy work like never
before but that's not all we'll have new
bodies bodies that are free from cancer
that word won't exist anymore no cancer
no heart attacks no dementia but it
doesn't stop there no more broken
relationships no more alienation from
family members no more standing over the
grave of a loved one and saying goodbye
all of that will be gone John says in
Revel Revelation 21:4 for on that day
God will wipe away every tear from our
eyes and there shall no longer be any
death or Mourning or crying or pain for
the first things will have passed
away that's the forever future God has
planned for those who know Jesus Christ
let's bow
together are you ready for that forever
future
future God's plan is for that future to
be in heaven but if your name is not
written in the book of life you have a
much different a terrifying future ahead
of
you right now you can make sure your
name is written in that Eternal Book of
Life by placing your faith and trust in
Jesus Christ to be your
savior the only people who will be
allowed into heaven are forgiven people
and if you've come to the place in your
life where you realize you need God's
forgiveness I want to encourage you
wherever you are to accept his
forgiveness by praying this simple
prayer dear God thank you for loving
me I know I have failed you in many ways
and I'm truly sorry for the sins in my
life but I believe what I've heard today
that you loveed me so much you sent your
son Jesus Jesus to die on the cross for
me to take the punishment I deserve to
take for my
sins and right now I'm trusting in what
Jesus did for
me not in my good works but in what
Jesus did for me to save me from my
sins thank you for forgiving me and help
me to live the rest of my life for
you in Jesus name amen for those of you
watching online if you prayed that
prayer with me and you meant it please
go to the top of the screen click on the
link that says I prayed the prayer and
I'll be notified to day of your decision
I have some free material to send you
about what it means to live your life as
a Christian don't wait a moment longer
click on that link right now for those
of you in day one or those of you here
in our worship center please take out
the card and you'll notice a box the
second box for you to check if you
prayed that prayer and we'll be in touch
with you sending you that same material
about living as a Christian we're
sending our online friends today if
you're a guest please let us know if
you'd like to join First Baptist Dallas
is so many have done in recent days
check that box as well we'll have
somebody call you to process your
membership information this week but if
you check the guest box we have a gift
for you we want you to to take your card
drop it off at the Welcome Center and
we'll give you a copy of the new book
are we living in the end times and it's
uh our gift to you for coming and
visiting First Baptist Church Dallas so
be sure and CH Step By The Welcome
Center to pick up a copy of that book
thank you so much for doing it we want
to remember do we have tickets left for
our we have very few tickets left for
the Christmas Spectacular
so don't wait any longer if you haven't
gotten several of the performances are
already sold out so if you don't have a
ticket stop by the booth on the way out
and get your ticket well we've got some
great news you've probably heard it our
first Baptist Saints from First Baptist
Academy won the state championship in
Waco Texas last night Jason lavorn is
the Headmaster and the coach Jason stand
up and we want to say thank you for a
great job in leading our First Baptist
Academy to
Victory thank you for being here hope
you have a wonderful day in the Lord and
we'll look forward to seeing you next
Sunday let's stand together as Tyler
comes to lead us in our final song thank
you Pastor what a wonderful morning of
worship let's sing God's praise together
singing this is my
story this is my
[Music]
praising My
Savior call
the this is my
[Music]
story this is my
song praising My
Savior all the day
Lord
have a blessed day
Church hello I'm Emanuel pendula but you
can call me Manny your I campus Pastor
thanks for joining us for worship I hope
you feel uplifted and encouraged after
today's service continue to spread the
Joy by inviting your loved ones to join
us every week and stay connected on our
social media platforms and I campus
Global Facebook group
where you'll find inspiring content
updates and connect with Believers
worldwide also join our I Campus
Community for a Sunday school lesson
taught by Ryland whorn our executive
pastor of Ministries at 8:30 9:15 and
11:00 a.m. Central Time I look forward
to personally getting to know you so be
sure to leave a message in the chat
about how I can pray and minister to you
remember we're here to serve you every
Sunday morning and throughout the week
in your spiritual walk stay blessed and
see you
soon